Fees and fee related expenses.
Tip number one.
Argue all fines, period.
Okay?
If it's a speeding ticket,
go to court if applicable and appropriate where you live.
And ask the judge to make the fine lower.
And I've done this.
I've saved 50% or so on a couple occasions
when I had to go to court to argue speeding tickets,
et cetera.
And it's really important,
because when we talk about insurance later in the course,
if you don't appeal these fines,
sometimes it can impact how much insurance you're
gonna pay in the future,
which can lead up to literally thousands and thousands
of dollars over time.
And all you gotta do is ask.
You know, appeal all fines as most people don't do this.
So just ask often like Steve Jobs says per this video.
And pause me if you wanna watch this video.
If not, fast forward to this time here
to watch the next tip.
I've actually always found something to be very true,
which is most people don't get those experiences,
'cause they never ask.
I've never found anybody that didn't wanna
help me if I asked them for help.
I always call 'em up.
I called up, this will date me,
but I called up Bill Hewlett when I was 12 years old,
and he lived in Palo Alto.
His number was still in the phone book.
And he answered the phone himself.
He was like, yes?
I said hi, I'm Steve Jobs, I'm 12 years old.
I'm a student in high school,
and I wanna build a frequency counter.
And I was wondering if you had any spare parts I could have.
And he laughed,
and he gave me the spare parts
to build this frequency counter,
and he gave me a job that summer in Hewlett Packard
working on the assembly line putting nuts and bolts
together on frequency counters.
He got me a job in the place that built them,
and I was in heaven.
And I've never found anyone who said no
or hung up the phone when I called.
I just asked.
And when people ask me,
I try to be as responsive,
you know to pay that debt of gratitude back.
Most people never pick up the phone and call.
Most people never ask.
And that's what separates sometimes the people
that do things from the people that just dream about them.
You gotta act,
and you've gotta be willing to fail.
You've gotta be willing to crash and burn,
you know with people on the phone,
with starting a company, with whatever.
If you're afraid of failing, you won't get very far.
Fees and fee related charges expenses tip number two.
Eliminate many bank charges tips.
Okay?
Never use bank machines from other banks
given how ridiculous the fees are getting now.
They charge a fortune now.
And we're gonna do an exercise later in the course
at this point here that will help us change
to a bank account where the fees are way way lower
and hopefully where your money
is insured by your government.
Fees and fee related charge expenses number three.
Ignore the media and all advertisings tip.
Anybody interviewed on a finance program is biased.
I'm not saying they're unethical,
but they're biased if they're discussing an investment,
because they own that investment,
or they work for that company,
or they have a partnership
with the investment company, et cetera.
And just please form your own opinions
and ignore commercials and people
that speak gooder than us on TV.
Better than us, I know.
Nobody is smarter than you, I really believe that.
And if you want,
you can pause this video and also watch this short video
from Steve Jobs on this topic.
If you don't wanna watch it,
fast forward to this point in this lecture.
Thank you.
The thing I would say is,
when you grow up, you tend to get told that the world
is the way it is and your life is just
to live your life inside the world.
Try not to bash into the walls too much.
Try to have a nice family life.
Have fun, save a little money.
But life, that's a very limited life.
Life can be much broader once you discover once simple fact.
And that is everything around you that you call life
was made up by people that were no smarter than you.
And you can change it.
You can influence it.
You can build your own things that other people can use.
And the minute that you understand that you can poke life
and actually something will,
you know if you push in,
something will pop out the other side.
That you can change it, you can mold it.
That's maybe the most important.
Fees and fee related charges expenses tip number four.
Mutual funds are a rip-off tip.
We're gonna talk about mutual funds in a lot more detail
in the make money portion of the course
which is in part three.
But I wanted to put this on your radar screen right now.
95% of mutual funds underperform the stock market indexes.
And mutual funds have so many hidden fees
that cost you a lot of money.
And why do we buy mutual funds anyway
given what I just mentioned?
Because mutual fund companies
spend a fortune in advertising,
and they are very powerful when it comes
to government influence with campaign donations, et cetera.
And so instead of buying mutual funds, only buy ETFs
which stands for exchange traded funds.
And you can buy ETFs from amazing companies like Vanguard
for incredibly smaller fees compared to mutual funds.
And you can buy ETFs for all major stock market indexes,
commodities, sectors, country-based investments, et cetera.
And just like how we spoke about buying generic
instead of brand name products.
You know, please do the same with ETFs
instead of mutual funds.
And we're gonna do many many many exercises on this topic
in part three of the course.
Tip number five.
Stamps cost you a fortune, so eliminate them.
Try to pay every single bill if you can online
and save on stamps.
Every small amount adds up to a lot of money
in the long run.
Right?
And if you wanna understand how much money
you will save on this,
then open up exercise number one in the course,
and just play around with the savings you will have
in your lifetime on stamps.
And we can really help the environment this way as well,
especially if we receive all
of our statements electronically.
Tip number six.
Use cash only.
Do you really need credit cards?
If you paid for everything using cash,
I bet you we would spend a lot less.
So if you want,
consider canceling all or many of your credit cards.